Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane and David Carson.
Ray Bradbury has tried just about every form of writing an author can undertake.
Short stories, novels, poetry plays, even an opera.
And he's also written numerous television and movie scripts.
He used to write shows back in the 60s for Twilight Zone and offered Hitchcock.
We asked Bradbury if he still does television scripts, particularly the kind that are written
on cue with the deadline.
Well, I tried never to do that anyway.
I had a very friendly relationship with Alfred Hitchcock and all of his partners, Daryl
Jones Harrison and Norman Lloyd.
I'd go out and have a casual lunch, tell them an idea.
They'd okay it.
I'd go home and write it and come back with a finished script and we'd have another lunch.
If they could argue me into any changes, I'd make them.
And if I could argue them into the logic of my situation, it stayed the way it was.
So it was a very amiable, very friendly thing.
I never did a lot of scripts.
I wouldn't let myself get bullied into being a full-time writer because no one remembers
who writes scripts for television anyway.
Bradbury still writes for television occasionally.
Last year he had two shows that were successful, The Electric Grandmother and Any Friend of
Nicholas Nicolby is a friend of mine.
That last work is based on a play Bradbury had written.
We asked him how many of his plays had been produced.
Oh, I would say somewhere around 14 or 15 of them.
Most of them I produced myself.
Dan Limewine here on the coast recently, back east a few years ago.
The Martian Chronicles which I produced here at a small theater.
Fahrenheit 451, two years ago which turned out very well.
The wonderful ice cream suit and six or seven of my one-act plays.
I've had the Anthem Sprinters which is all of my Irish experiences.
So I've had a lot of fun with it and I've made a lot of friends among actors.
I've worked with a lot of good people including James Whitmore who appeared in my first one-act
play here and had a benefit for the United Nations about 23 years ago.
It's obvious from all of Bradbury's fiction that he is a lover of books.
Fahrenheit 451 is a good example of that.
We wondered then how he could devote so much energy to the visual arts like television or the movies.
I grew up with all these loves.
If I have any capacity at all it's to be in love in six or seven different ways.
So I've always been madly in love with motion pictures.
My mother was a fiend for them and took me to see hundreds of films.
From the age of when I was two until up until I was 10, 11 or 12.
So that never left me and I think I'm very fortunate to have a great love of films,
a great love of libraries and books, a great love of radio and the famous people in radio.
When I came west to live in Los Angeles I headed downtown immediately and got to know all the people
on an old radio broadcast called Hollywood Hotel and Laurel Parsons became a friend to this
13, 14 year old boy and I knew Burns and Allen during those years of 1934, 35, 36.
I wrote scripts for them every week and handed them in.
Of course I doubt if they even read them but they pretended that they did and they were very kind to me.
And then I was in love with Orson Welles when he came on the scene in radio and suspense
and Norman Corwin who became my friend when I was 27 years old.
So I grew up then with a love of libraries, a love of radio, a love of films and I think I'm very lucky
that I've been able to work in all of these different mediums and do rather well in each one of them.
More next time with Ray Bradbury.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction
Association produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane and David Carson. Ray Bradbury, who most readers recognize as a
Science Fiction author, has been writing poetry for most of his life. And he publishes it regularly too
in all sorts of magazines every so often the poems are collected together in a single volume.
There have been four of these collections so far. When elephants last in the doryard bloomed,
where robot mice and robot men run around in robot towns, the haunted computer and the android pope,
and most recently the complete poems of Ray Bradbury.
We asked Bradbury when he sits down to write what determines what will come out,
a story, a novel, a play, an opera, whatever.
When I'm writing a poem, I'll say, oh my, this is too big for a poem. I may very well finish the poem,
but then I sit down and turn it into a short story immediately, or on a rare occasion it turns into a
stage play or a novel. But that doesn't happen as often. Most of the time I work in the short form.
But quite often you take the simplest idea and it evolves from the poetry form
into, well, I was, for instance, I was driving around in England a few years ago,
and a chauffeur of our car was talking about driving in the Irish and funerals, the Irish wakes and what
have you, and he told of this one wake of some friends of his in a small town in Ireland,
where an English lord lived nearby. When he died, he went against the old saying,
you can't take it with you, and he took with him all of his wine, and he had all the thousands of
bottles of wine in his cellar poured into his grave. Well, it was such a great idea that I
wrote it as a short story last week and sent it off, and it'll probably be in playboy sometime in
the next three or four, five months. We asked Bradbury if he could name one or two of his favorite
poems from his own work. At the time I write them, of course, I think each one is good,
or I wouldn't have put it in the book. I try not to ever publish a poem or a short story that I've
gotten tired of. With his incredibly busy schedule, will he continue to write poetry? Oh, yes, yes, yes.
Those science fiction fans who might have been surprised that Bradbury writes poetry have
another surprise ahead of them. When we asked Bradbury if there was a form of writing he hadn't
tried yet, his answer contained a mild shocker. I can't think of anything offhand. Now that I'm
working on this libretto for this opera, that sort of rounds out the list, I would, I'm working on
a detective murder mystery novel now, which I've never done before, so it's a new, it's a change for
me in the novel form. I've been a great lover and admirer of Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler
for the last 40 years or so, and I always wanted to do something in that field, but I was afraid to
do it because I wasn't well enough educated, even though I'd read hundreds of novels in the field
when I was younger. It didn't seem to get into my bloodstream, but now I think I'm old enough,
and I hope I've learned my lessons, and when the novel comes out people will agree that it's at least
an agreeable competitor in the field. Could he tell us when the novel might be published?
No, I would say about a year from now. It's right up close to being finished. I've been working on
seven or eight years, but you never know. I might finish it all in one week in the next week or two,
and again, I may drag on for another six months. I'm not in charge. I don't make the decisions.
We'll have more next time with Ray Bradbury.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction
Association produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is David Carson.
And Darrell Lane.
Ray Bradbury has always been impossible to categorize.
We asked Bradbury if it ever bothers him to be labeled as a science fiction writer.
There are still some teachers who think that science fiction isn't worth bothering with,
and of course that drives me wild. So their opinion actually irritates me,
because to me it's the central fiction of our time. We are science-oriented,
technologically-oriented people, and there's nothing else to write about except human beings
in some sort of relationship with their ideas, with their machine reads, with their technologies.
All the major problems of our time right now are technological, scientific, moral problems.
What do you do with the automobile? What do you do with nuclear power?
What do you do with cloning? What do you do with DNA experimentation? All these
problems that arise as soon as you invent something new. So all of our major problems right now,
you can't name one that's not connected to a machine somewhere down the line.
What about those hard-headed practical sort of people who have no use for imaginative literature
and call it useless? Well, there's always been backtalk among intellectuals who don't stop and
think what they're saying. It's a very dumb remark. I mean, if you don't have an imagination,
you can't survive. If you don't have some sort of creative instinct in you, how do you think people
survive book and vault? Those who survived survived with their imagination. A lot of them were able
to imagine at times for a little while they were somewhere else. If you're in a jail and people
are dying all around you, you damn well better have the power of imagination so that you can
imagine a future where this will stop or you can imagine a present where you're not there for a
horror that surrounds you. That's a huge thing to be able to do and a lot of people did it. It's
remarkable. It's miraculous. But that's what a human being is, a miraculous animal in the history
of the world who's able to survive. We asked Bradbury what part of his work he'd like to be
remembered for one or two hundred years from now. Oh, I hope that something wicked this way comes.
It's still around. I think it's a universal book. At least I hope it is. It deals with children and
growing up and growing old and getting sick and dying. All the things that happened to all the
people in the history of the world. I hope the book won't age. That it would be long to no special
time but to all times. It's my favorite and I love it because I suppose I'm locked into it with my
father. My father is the hero of the book and I didn't know that at the time I wrote it. One night
I got up and wanted around the house and picked up the book and started to reread it and suddenly
cried out and tears burst from my eyes and I realized that I'd written my father into the book as the
as Mr. Holloway who is the hero of the entire structure of the book. So that's the reason,
one of the reasons why I love it and I hope it'll have a little life after I'm gone.
Something wicked this way comes is indeed a classic in the fantasy horror genre.
And it will be out as a major Hollywood motion picture soon. It's being done by Walt Disney
and Bradbury wrote the script for the screen version. It should be a great one. We'll conclude
our conversation with Ray Bradbury on our next show. This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show,
a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction Association produced in conjunction with Odessa
College in Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane and David Carson. Anyone familiar with the stories of Ray Bradbury will
know that he occasionally writes something in praise of George Bernard Shaw. We asked him why
he thought so much of Shaw. My God, he is of all the writers of our time just about,
at least on the when you think of Irish English literature for the theater.
He is the idea writer of all idea writers. He and G.K. Chesterton and a few others, but he sort of
outraces and outpaces everyone. You name a subject and he just pretty well wrote about it 70 years ago,
100 years ago, 90 years ago. He was interested in theology, he was interested in machinery,
he was interested in the future, he was interested in biology.
He had a far ranging curiosity about mankind and the future of mankind.
So he wrote science fiction as well as doing theological studies and great characters from
history like St. John. I'm so sorry that I never had a chance to get to Europe
while he was still alive. What kinds of books would Bradbury choose to educate children today?
Oh, I would recommend George Bernard Shaw as soon as someone was old enough. I don't think you can
give Shaw to children nor can you give him to kids in high school. But as soon as people get into
to college, then I would bring Shaw out and give them a complete education and ideas and how to
think. And at the lower level, I imagine I would start them out with Jules Verne and H.C. Wells,
the science fiction writers, because kids really are interested in ideas. And it's very playful,
it's wonderful to have an interest in such things. And that's the reason why science fiction,
during the last few years, has been so popular in the high schools and the junior high schools,
that the kids recognize that these fictions deal with very real problems that must be solved.
And you have the fun of playing with those toys inside your head.
Of course, Bradbury is still going full speed writing his own fiction of all sorts.
When we asked him what he was working on at the present time, he mentioned the usual things,
such as poetry, short stories, and novel, even something unusual, a grand opera.
But he's also shaping up something else that should be fascinating to all readers.
Because I've written a sort of autobiographical charting of where I get my ideas and how I
wrote all of my novels. I want to do a sort of book similar to, but certainly not equal to,
the summing up by someone said, Mom. And I think ideas are fascinating. Where do you get a story
idea and what do you do with it? And after all, I've written four or five hundred stories.
So that would make, I think, an interesting book and not a boring one. I don't like to read
autobiographies where they take a thousand pages to go through their childhood.
I'm really not interested in the facts of people's lives. It's a rare person who can write about
their childhood or their sexuality and be interesting and amusing. I don't care
what kind of sex life anyone has had. I don't want to know a thing about George Burnary Shaw
or someone said, Mom or Shakespeare and these others. I have no interest in their sex life.
I have only a huge and pervading interest in their ideas, where they got them and what they did with
them. So that's the kind of book I'm doing. You won't find a gossip in it. You won't find out anything
horrendous about me or anyone else. Just how I stumble over things, pick myself up, dust myself off, and write a poem.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane. And Bill Vernon. Jessica Amanda Salmonson has been a professional writer
and editor of fantasy for only a few years, but she's made her influence felt. In 1980,
her first professional work, Amazons, an anthology she edited for Dahl Books, won an award as the
best fantasy anthology of the year. And she's written three novels of heroic fantasy. Two of
them involve a woman samurai warrior named Tomoi Gozen. The first one, entitled Tomoi Gozen,
was published in 1981. The second, called the Golden Naginata, came out in 1982. She also edited
another fantasy anthology in 1982 called Amazons 2, and she'll have much more work coming out in
the future. We spoke with Salmonson recently about her involvement in the field of fantasy.
We wondered if she grew up reading science fiction pulp magazines, as many contemporary
authors have. I never liked the pulp particularly. I liked fairy tales when I was quite little, but
somehow I never thought of them as being suitable for me as a teenage reader or as an adult reader.
It took me a long time to connect and see that fantasy was really suited for adults as well.
I think a lot of people feel that way about fantasy. They start reading science fiction,
perhaps partly because it seems more adult than fantasy. I don't think that's at all true.
Fantasy is a stronger symbolic meaning where science fiction in a lot of ways is a lot more
simplistic. It's worldviews, feeling around for symbols that don't have an ancient heritage or
ancient long existence in our subconscious and our culture. We ask her why fantasy,
particularly heroic fantasy, is so popular these days. Why do people read it?
I don't think you can generalize why people like it.
I think for some people it has a very deep symbolic meaning in their personal daily lives.
Obviously nobody is really a big, tough swords master who can win their way through any problem,
but I think that there is a relationship between these fantasies and the real world that's not
just escapists in that our daily lives are pretty dangerous and we somehow manage to survive and
go to the end of our lives anyway. It's kind of, I suppose, burlesque and extreme,
but the heroic fantasy world is very much like our own world and the dangers we manage to survive
day after day. Also the amount of death and blood and gore that exists in these kinds of novels
is to many people exploitative and grotesque. They don't like it. They don't know why so many
other people do like it and they think very badly of that form of literature because it is so
bloody. But to me, I think there is definitely that exploit to that aspect of it, but I think it's
also, again, symbolic of the transience of our own life. At any moment, if you get smashed to
smithereens in a car crash, life can just end suddenly. Even if you live a long life,
any 80 years or 60 years, this is not a long time and the sudden death and the danger that these
worlds represent is very much like our own world. They're very honest in a way. Finally, we inquired
about the relation of fantasy and fairy tales. In most cases, I think one is the direct outgrowth
of the other. But heroic fantasy probably has its most obvious roots in ancient epics from
Gilgamesh or Jason and the Argonauts, anything like that. It's probably its most obvious roots,
but in the nature of storytelling it's in prose form. It's more related to the fairy tales.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction
Association produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.